# AWS Security

- [Identity And Access Management (IAM)](#identity-and-access-management-iam)
- [AWS Organization](#aws-organization)
- [AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF)](#aws-web-application-firewall-waf)
- [AWS Firewall Manager](#aws-firewall-manager)
- [AWS Shield](#aws-shield)
- [AWS CloudTrail](#aws-cloudtrail)
- [AWS Config](#aws-config)
- [CloudWatch](#cloudwatch)
- [Logging in AWS](#logging-in-aws)
- [VPC Flow Logs](#vpc-flow-logs)
- [Key Management Service (KMS)](#key-management-service-kms)
- [S3 Encryption Mechanisms](#s3-encryption-mechanisms)

<br />

# Identity And Access Management (IAM)

IAM is to manage, control and govern authentication, authorization and access control mechanisms of identities of your resources within your AWS Account. Identities are required to authenticate AWS accounts. Access Management relates to **authorization** and **access control**. IAM is a **global service**.

### IAM components
- Users
  - A user can represent a real person who requires access to operate and maintain your AWS environment 
  - Or an account used by an application that requires permissions to access your AWS resources programmatically
    - Access Key ID
    - Secret Access Key ID
      - It's not possible to retrieve lost Secret Access Key IDs
    - These keys must be applied and associated with your application
- Groups
  - IAM Groups contain multiple users
  - IAM Groups are not used in authentication process. They are used to authorize access through AWS Policies.
  - IAM Groups contain IAM Users and have IAM policies associated. (AWS managed policies and/or Customer managed
policies)
- Roles
  - different identities can adopt to assume a new set of permissions
- Policy Permissions
  - These are JSON policies that define what resources can or can't be accessed
- Access Control Mechanisms
  - These are mechanisms that govern how a resource is accessed.
    - username and password 
    - multi-factor authentication (MFA)
    - federated access

### Roles

For example, you have an EC2 instance running an application that requires access to Amazon S3 to Put
and Get objects using the relevant API calls. You can assign an IAM Role to the EC2 instance. You should
always associate a role to an EC2 instance for accessing AWS resources over storing local credentials
on the instance itself.

Roles don't have any access keys or credentials associated with them. The credentials are dynamically 
assigned by AWS. You can alter the permissions assigned to the Role and all the EC2 instance associated 
will have the correct access.

There are currently 4 different types of Roles:
- AWS Service Role
- AWS Service-Linked Role - These roles do not allow you to modify permissions assigned.
- Role for Cross-Account Access. This role type offer two options:
  - Option 1: provide access between AWS accounts that you own.
  - Option 2: provide access between an account that you own and a third party AWS account.
  - The **trusting** account has the resources that need to be accessed. The **trusted** account contains 
  users that need to access the resources in the trusting account.
    1) A role is created in the trusting account.
    2) A trust is established with teh role by the AWS account number of the trusted account.
    3) Permissions are applied to the Role via **policies**.
    4) The users in the trusted account have a **policy** attached.
- Role for Identity Provider Access
  - Grant access to web identity providers - creates a trust for users using Amazon Cognito, amazon, Facebook,
  Google or other provider.
  - Grant Web Single Sign On to SAML Providers - allows access for users coming from a Security Assertion
  Markup Language (SAML) provider.
  - Grant API access to SAML Providers - Allows access from SAML provider via the AWS CLI, SDKs or API calls. 

### Policies

IAM Policies are used to assign permissions. They are formatted as a JSON document and have at least one 
statement with this structure:

~~~json
{
    "Version": "2020-12-25",
    "Statement": [
      {
        "Sid": "Stmt123456789012",
        "Action": "cloudtrail:*",
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Resource": "*",
        "Condition": {
          "IpAddress": {
            "aws:SourceIp": "10.10.0.0/16"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
}
~~~

There are two types of IAM Policies: 
- Managed Policies
  - AWS Managed Policies
  - Customer Managed Policies
- In-line Policies
  - They are directly embedded into a specific user, group or role.
  - If there are conflicting permissions assigned to the same user, follow:
    - By default, all access is denied.
    - Access will only be allowed if an explicit "Allow" has been specified.
    - A single "Deny" will overrule any "Allow".
  

### Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

MFA utilizes a random 6 digit number generated by an MFA device. There is no additional charge for this. You need 
to own a MFA device which can be a physical token or a virtual device. The MFA device must be configured and 
associated to the user. This configuration can be done from within IAM.

### Identity Federation

Identity federation allows you to access and manage AWS resources even if you don't have a user account
within IAM. Identity providers (IdP) allow users to access AWS resources securely. There must be a trust 
relationship between the IdP and your AWS account. AWS supports two types of IdP:
- **OpenID** - such as Facebook, Google, Amazon. Amazon Cognito
- **SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language)** - allows your existing MS-AD users to authenticate to your AWS
resources on a SSO approach.

An example:

1. The user initiates a request to authenticate against the **ADFS server** via a web browser using a **SSO URL**.
2. If the authentication is successful by the AD credentials, SAML will then issues a **Successful Authentication
Assertion** back to the users' client requesting federated access.
3. The **SAML Assertion** is sent to the **AWS STS** to assume a role within IAM using the **AssumeRoleWithSAML API**.
4. **STS** responds to the user requesting federated access with **temporary security credentials** with an assumed
role and associated permissions.
5. The user then has **federated access** to the necessary AWS services as per the role permissions.

> **Security Token Service (STS)** allows you to gain temporary security credentials for federated users via IAM.

### Features of IAM

- Account settings - password policy and security token service regions.
- Credential Report - a list of all your IAM users and credentials. The report will only be generated once in 4 hours.
- Key Management Service (KMS)

<br />

# AWS Organization

AWS Organizations uses the following components to help you manage your accounts.
- Organizations
- Root
- Organizational Units
- Accounts
- Service Control Policies (SCPs)

**Master account** is a standard AWS account that you have chosen to create the AWS organization. The best 
practice to use this account solely as a master account and not to use it to provision any other resources.
This allows you to restrict to the master account at a greater level. The fewer users who need access to it,
the better. The master account carries certain administrative level capabilities, such as being able to
create additional AWS accounts within your organization, invite other accounts to join your organization,
remove AWS accounts from your organization and apply security features via policies to different levels within 
your organization.

An **Security Control Policies (SCP)** does NOT grant access, they add a **guardrail** to define what is allowed. You will still need to configure
your identity-based or resource-based policies to identities granting permission to carry out actions
within your accounts.

<br />

# AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF)

AWS WAF helps to prevent web sites and web applications from being maliciously attacked by common web
attack patterns. It is used to identify how **Amazon CloudFront distributions** and **application load
balancers** respond to **web requests**. It filters both HTTP and HTTPS request distinguishing between
legitimate and harmful inbound requests.

AWS WAF integrated with **CloudWatch** allowing you to monitor set metrics for the service. 
**WAF CloudWatch metrics** are **reported in one minute intervals** by default and are **kept for a 2 week period**. 
The metrics monitored are: _AllowedRequests_, _BlockedRequests_, _CountedRequests_, _PassedRequests_.

AWS WAF relies heavily on **AWS CloudFront distributions**. It also **supports custom origins** allowing you to 
apply the same level of security to **web infrastructure managed outside of AWS**. The association between 
the Web ACL and a CloudFront distribution can take approximately 15 minutes for the Web ACL and associated
rules to be propagated. When a request is blocked by WAF, CloudFront is notified that the request was 
forbidden and returns a **403 error** to their browser. You can create your own custom 403 error to guide 
the user to other useful links and provide a polite reason as to why they may have experienced the error. 

### AWS WAF Componnets
- **Conditions** - conditions allow you to specify what elements of the incoming HTTP or HTTPS request you want WAF to be 
  monitoring for.
  - Cross-site scripting
  - Geo match
  - IP addresses
  - Size constraints
  - SQL injection attacks
  - String and regex matching
- **Rules** - a WAF rule allows you to compile one or more of these conditions into a list which acts as a rule
where each condition is ANDed to form the complete rule.
- **Web ACLs** - rules can be added to Web ACLs. Within the web ACL, an action is applied for each rule. These
actions can either be Allow, Block or Count. **Rules are executed in the order** that they are listed within a 
Web ACL. As soon as the request matches all the conditions within a rule it will be associated with that rule
regardless of if there is another rule further down that would also be a match.

### AWS WAF Limitations
- 100 conditions of each type except Regex which allows only 10 conditions
- 100 rules and 50 Web ACLs per account
- 5 rate-based-rules per account
- 10,000 requests per second for WAF with your ALB 

### AWS WAF Pricing 
There are three chargeable elements of AWS WAF. You will not be charged extra for assigning the 
same Web ACL to multiple distributions.
- the number of incoming requests
- the number of web ACLs that you have
- the number of Rules within each of the Web ACL

<br />

# AWS Firewall Manager

AWS Firewall Manager has been designed to help you manage WAF in a **multi-account** environment with simplicity
and control. It allows you to protect your vulnerable resources across all of your AWS accounts within your 
AWS Organization. It can group and protect specific resources together, e.g. all resources with a particular
tag or all of your CloudFront distributions. It automatically protects certain resources that are
added to your account as they become active. 

### Prerequisites of Using Firewall Manager
- ensure your AWS account is a part of an AWS Organization which much have been configured with all features.
- define which AWS account will act as the **Firewall Manager Admin**.
- ensure you have **AWS Config** enabled.

### Components of AWS Firewall Manager
- **WAF Rules** - contain conditions.
- Rule Groups **- allow you to group together one or more WAF rules that will have the same action applied. You 
ca**n create your own rule group and add your own WAF rules, or purchase existing rule groups via the AWS
Marketplace. Rule Groups can only contain 1 of 2 actions, these being either Block or Count. You can only have 
10 rules per group which can not be increased.
- **Firewall Manager Policies** - contain the rule groups that you want to assign to your AWS resources. You can
only have 2 rule groups per policy: one customer created rule group, one AWS Marketplace rule group.

<br />

# AWS Shield

**AWS Shield** has been designed to protect your infrastructure **against DDoS attacks**. AWS Shield itself is 
available at two different levels of features: 
- **AWS Shield Standard** (free) for network and transport layers.
- **AWS Shield Advanced** (additional cost) for network, transport and **application** layers.

> **DDoS attack** target a web host and it receives a huge number of requests simultaneously from multiple
> distributed sources. It prevent legitmate requests getting through whilst at the same time severely
> hindering the performance of the application or website.
> Types of DDoS attacks:
> - SYN flood
> - DNS query flood
> - HTTP flood/Cache-busting

<br />

### Activate AWS Shield Advanced
- you need to manually **select the resources** needing protection. You can select the resources using 
ARNs. You must associate an EIP address to your EC2 instance for it to be protected.
- you must add **rate-based rules**. These rate-based rules are only associated with CloudFront distribution
and application load balancers. For each supported resource in the list, it is recommended you associate 
a Web ACL with a rate-based rule.
- you may or may not authorize **the AWS DRT (the AWS DDoS Response Team)** to review, update and modify your Web
ACLs and Shield configurations during an attack. If you want the assistance of the DRT team, you must be 
subscribed to either the business or enterprise support plans.

<br />

# AWS CloudTrail

AWS CloudTrail **records and tracks all API requests in your AWS account**. These requests can be initiated 
from SDKs, AWS CLI, AWS management console or another AWS service. CloudTrail is a **global** service supporting
all regions.

### Use Cases
- effective for security analysis
  - monitor restricted API calls
  - notification of threshold breaches
- resolve day to day operational issues
  - filtering mechanisms for isolating data
  - quicker root cause identification
  - speedy resolution
- able to track changes to your AWS infrastructure
- CloudTrail logs can be used as evidence for various compliance and governance controls
  - ISO
  - PCI DSS
  - FedRamp
- Security at Scale

### Core Features and Services
- Trails
- Simple Storage Service (S3)
- Logs (created every 5 mins)
- Key Management Service (KMS)
- Simple Notification Service (SNS)
- CloudWatch Logs
- Event Selectors
- Tags
- Events
- API Activity Filters

<br />

# AWS Config

### What Can AWS Config Do
- Capture resource changes
- Act as a resource inventory
- Store configuration history
- Provide a snapshot of configurations
- Enable notifications about changes
- Provide AWS CloudTrail integration
- Use rules to check compliancy
- Perform security analysis
- Identify relationships between resources
- Config is **region** specific

### AWS Config Key Components
- AWS Resources
- Configuration Item (CI) - Configuration information, relationship information and other metadata in JSON.
- Configuration Stream
- Configuration History - delivered every 6 hours.
- Configuration Snapshot
- Configuration Recorder - is responsible for recording all the changes and generating the CIs
- Config Rules - a great way to help you **enforce specific compliance controls**. Each rule is a Lambda function 
which notify you the non-compliant changes. 
- Resource Relationship - identifies relationships between resources.
- SNS Topic - is used as a Configuration Stream for notifications.
- S3 Bucket - is used to store all the Configuration History files and Snapshots.
- AWS Config Permissions - The IAM role is required to allow AWS Config to obtain the correct permissions
to interact with other services.

<br />

# CloudWatch

CloudWatch is a comprehensive monitoring tool that allows you to monitor your services and applications
in the cloud. It also allows you to react to events and even prevent service interruptions and outages.
CloudWatch will monitor and create trend reports for services and resources you're probably already using.
CloudWatch also provides a repository for logging.

- Basic Monitoring - Included with all resources in all regions. 3 dashboard / 50 metrics / 5 minute refresh rate
- Enhanced Monitoring - Priced per resource by region. 1 minute refresh rate 

<br />

# Logging in AWS

The Unified CloudWatch Agent allows the collection of logs from EC2 instances as well from on-premise server.

### CloudWatch Agent Installation
- Create a role and attach it to the instance with permissions to collect data from the instances in
addition to interacting with **AWS systems manager SSM**.
- Download and install the agent onto the EC2 instance.
- Configure and start the CloudWatch agent. (Configuration file is copied to **the SSM parameter store**.)


### Amazon CloudFront Access Logs

Log files capture data over a period of time and the amount of log files generated depend on 
the amount of requests received. CloudFront retains logs until they are ready to be delivered to S3.
This delivery can take between 1 and 24h.

<br />

# VPC Flow Logs

Within your VPC you could potentially have hundreds or even thousands of resources all communicating together.
VPC Flow Logs allows you to capture IP traffic information that flows between your network interfaces of
your resources within your VPC. this data is useful for a number of reasons, largely to help you resolve 
incidents with network communication and traffic flow in addition to beting used for security purposes to
help spot traffic reaching a destination that should be prohibited.

You can set up and create a Flow Log against these resources:
- A Network interface on one of your instances
- A Subnet within your VPC
- Your VPC itself

### Limitations of VPC Flow Logs

- For VPC peered connections, you can only see flow logs of peered VPCs within the same account.
- You are not able to retrieve information from resources within the EC2-Classic environment.
- Once a VPC Flow Log has been cresated it can't be changed.
- The following traffic is not captured by the logs:
  - DHCP Traffic within the VPC.
  - Traffic from instances destined for Amazon DNS Servers.
  - Traffic destined to the IP addresses for the VPC default router.
  - Traffic to and from 169.254.169.254 (instance metadata) and 169.254.169.123 (Time Sync Service).
  - Traffic relating to an Amazon Windows activation license from a Window instance.
  - Traffic between a Network Load Balancer Network Interface and an Endpoint Network Interface.

<br />

# Key Management Service (KMS)

KMS is a managed service used to store and generate encryption keys that are used by other AWS services
and applications. AWS KMS only uses **Symmetric cryptography** which uses a single key. KMS is for **encryption
at rest** only. KMS is a region specific service. 

### Key Components of KMS

- **Customer Master Keys (CMK)**
  - AWS managed CMKs
  - Customer managed CMKs
- **Data Encryption Keys (DEK)**
- **Key Policies** 
  - The key policies allow you to define who can use and access a key in KMS. These policies
are tied to the CMKs, they are resource based policies. These permissions are defined within a 
key policy JSON document.
  - Access control for most services can be completely controlled and governed by using IAM alone. For KMS 
    however, this is not the case. To manage access to your CMKs, you **must** use a key policy associated to your
    CMK.
- **Grants** - Grants are another method of controlling access and use of the CMKs held within KMS. They allow
you to delegate a subset of your own access to a CMK for principals. There is less risk of someone altering
the access control permissions for that CMK. Grants eliminates the possibility of anyone using the permission
_kms:PutKeyPolicy_.

### KMS Key Policies

A key policy is required for all CMKs. KMS creates a default key policy for you to allow principals 
to use the CMK in question. 
- KMS configures the root user of the AWS account full access to the CMK. If the full access user 
was deleted from IAM, you would need to contact AWS Support to regain the control.
- Without the root account having full access in the key policy, IAM can't be used.
- Key Administrators and users can also be configured within the key policy.
- Key Administrators can only administer the CMK, and not use it.
- Define which users should be allowed to perform any encryption using this CMK.
- Users are also able to use Grants.

### Using Key Policies with IAM

You must have the following entry within the Key policy allowing the root full KMS access to the CMK.

~~~json
{
  "Sid": "Enable IAM User Permissions",
  "Effect": "Allow",
  "Principal": {"AWS": "arn:aws:iam::123456789123:root"},
  "Action": "kms:*",
  "Resource": "*"
}
~~~

### Using key Policies with Grants

You can also assign permission using Grants alongside key policies.
- Grants allow you to delegate your permissions to another AWS principal within your AWS account.
- Grants need to be created using the AWS KMS APIs.
- Grants are attached to a CMK, much like key policies are.
- Permissions can then be adopted programmatically by the grantee.
- You need to specify the CMK identifier, the grantee principal and the required level of operations.
- To create a grant use the Create-Grant API.
- Grants generate a GrantToken and a GrantID.
- GrantTokens allow the grantee to perform the operations with immediate effect.

### Key Management

- **Rotation of CMKs** 
  - All existing backing keys are retained during and after rotation.
  - Automatic key rotation is not possible with imported key material.
  - CMKs in the state of disabled or pending deletion will not be rotated.
  - It's not possible to manage the key rotation for any **AWS managed CMKs**, these are rotated every **3 years**.
  - Manual key rotation is the process of replacing the current CMK with a new CMK.
- Import key material from an existing KMS outside of AWS
- Deletion of CMKs

> backing key: it is the cryptographic element that is used in the encryption process.
>
> key material: it is essentially the backing key.

<br />

# S3 Encryption Mechanisms

Server-Side Encryption
- with S3 Managed Keys (SSE-S3)
- with KMS Managed Keys (SSe-KMS)
- with Customer Provided Keys (SSE-C)

Client-Side Encryption
- with KMS Managed Keys (CSE-KMS)
- with Customer Provided Keys (CSE-C)

<br />

